
# SAINT
This repository contains the official implementation of our paper *"**SAINT**: **S**elf-**A**ttention Augmented **I**nception-Inside-Inception **N**e**t**work Improves Protein Secondary Structure Prediction."*

If you use any part of this repository, we shall be obliged if you site our paper [**SAINT**: **S**elf-**A**ttention Augmented **I**nception-Inside-Inception **N**e**t**work Improves Protein Secondary Structure Prediction](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa531).

# Usage
## Tensorflow and Keras installation
1. Please install [Tensorflow version: 1.15](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/gpu#older_versions_of_tensorflow). (Other 1.x versions should work, but have not been tested. Tensorflow-gpu version is recommended for faster inference.)
2. Please install [Keras version: 2.2.5](https://pypi.org/project/Keras/2.2.5/).

## Download pretrained-model weights:
1. Please download all the pretrained model weights from [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1mjXUfz33asJHBorEeMU0kd1A-1WChRyR) (4 weight-files for 4 single-models).
2. Place these four weight-files in the folder "SAINT".

## Input Features
To store input-features, navigate to the folder SAINT. Then follow any of the following two options:
### Option-1
1. List all the protein-names in the file: list_test

2. Place the FASTA, PSSM, HHM, and Spotcon (contact map generated by [Spot-Contact](https://sparks-lab.org/server/spot-contact/)) files for these proteins into the folder: Test

### Option-2
1. If you have a list of proteins in a text file (each in a new line) and a folder containing the FASTA, PSSM, HHM, and Spotcon files of these proteins, you can simply set their path in SAINT/config.py file.

## Run inference to predict secondary structures
1. From command line cd to "SAINT" folder (where SAINT_ensemble.py is situated).

2. In order to run inference with our complete SAINT (ensemble), please run the following command:

  > python SAINT_ensemble.py
  
3. If you want to run inference only with the FASTA, PSSM, and HHM (Without Spotcon), please run the following command:

  > python SAINT_single_base_model.py
  
# Output format
1. There are two types of output files: 
	- **Predicted Sequences:** Contain the predicted sequences of the secondary structures of the residues. The file extension is *".ss8"*.
	- **Predicted Probabilities:** Contain the predicted probabilities of the secondary structures, for each of the residues. The file extension is *".ss8_probab"*.
2. The predicted outout sequences and the predicted probabilities will be saved in separated files in the "SAINT/outputs" folder. The second of the third columns of the following table show the pattern of file-names of the output files, and the first column shows the types of the models: 

	| Model-type | File-name Patterns (Predicted Sequences) | File-name Patterns (Predicted Probabilities) |
	| -------------- |:--------------------------------------:|:--------------------------------------:|
	|*Ensemble*| *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_Ensemble.ss8    | *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_Ensemble.ss8_probab   |
	|*No Contact-Map*| *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin0.ss8    | *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin0.ss8_probab   |
	|*Contact Window size 10*| *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin10.ss8   | *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin10.ss8_probab   |
	|*Contact Window size 20*| *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin20.ss8   | *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin20.ss8_probab   |
	|*Contact Window size 50*| *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin50.ss8  | *<Protein_Name>*.SAINT_cwin50.ss8_probab  |
 3. In the above table, *<Protein_Name>* indicates the protein names given in file named *"list_test"*. Output files will be generated for all the proteins listed in this *"list_test"* file. 
 4. The characters in the output files of predicted sequences represent the eight states (Q8) as shown in the following table: 
 
 	|Character | State|
	| -------- |:----------:|
 	|H| α-helix |
	|G| 3_{10}-helix|
	|I| π-helix|
	|E| β-strand|
	|B| isolated β-bridge|
	|T| turn|
	|S| bend |
	|C| Others |
	
# Citation
Mostofa Rafid Uddin, Sazan Mahbub, M Saifur Rahman, Md Shamsuzzoha Bayzid, SAINT: Self-Attention Augmented Inception-Inside-Inception Network Improves Protein Secondary Structure Prediction, Bioinformatics, , btaa531, https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa531
